Subject: Announcing new BISmark firmware release and Privacy Statement changes
To: bismark-announce@projectbismark.net
To: bismark-users@projectbismark.net
To: bismark-participants@projectbismark.net
Cc: bismark-core@projectbismark.net
Cc: bismark-devel@projectbismark.net

Hello all,

I'm pleased to announce that the BISmark team has just released a new
version of the BISmark router software (firmware), code-named 'Quirm'.
It has a bunch of new features to make network measurement and
experimentation better, while also smoothing down some of the rough
edges from our previous release. Keep on reading below to learn more
about the release and how you can start using it.

We've also made some changes to our privacy statement that will take
effect on 1 May 2012. Keep reading for more on that too.

I want to thank you for participating in Project BISmark. We've learned a
lot (and continue to learn!) about how to conduct user-friendly
measurements from real homes, thanks to your help and patience. Please
let us know how we can do better -- we're always listening at
bismark-core@projectbismark.net.

--Steve Woodrow, on behalf of the BISmark Team

New features
------------

First off, we've made the router a bit easier to use. You can access the
router management interface by visiting myrouter.projectbismark.net from
inside your home network. From there, you can click through directly to
your router's data page on networkdashboard.org (no more manual entry of
MAC addresses!) or visit the improved router configuration app.

We've also added a new BISmark Experiments panel to the the router
configuration application. This panel, accessed via the "BISmark >
Experiments" menu item, allows to you see the current set of experiments
installed on the router and participate in optional experiments that we
plan to make available soon. We will let you know when new experiments
are available.

To make the BISmark router more like other home routers, we enabled the
reset and WiFi buttons. The reset button on the bottom of the router
will now restore the router to its original state if held for five
seconds -- handy if you accidentally misconfigure your router. The WiFi
button on the front of the router now toggles the WiFi radios in the
router on or off.

Finally, we've made some under-the-hood changes that will allow us to
start measuring against the Measurement Lab measurement platform. This
means that BISmark's measurements will start targeting a server closer
to you, which should result in more accurate throughput measurements.
The use of M-Lab has necessitated a small change in our privacy
statement -- more on that below.

For the hackers and researchers in the crowd, we've also patched the
router with the web100 kernel patches. Find full list of new features
and changes, in all its nerdy glory, at
https://github.com/projectbismark/bismark-openwrt-overlay/blob/master/BISMARK-CHANGELOG.markdown

How to get the new BISmark firmware
-----------------------------------

Already have a BISmark router? You can install the upgrade yourself, or
we can do it for you if you give us permission. Full details are at
https://github.com/projectbismark/projectbismark/wiki/Quirm-upgrade

If you don't have a BISmark router, you can purchase a Netgear
WNDR3700v2 or WNDR3800 and follow the instructions for installing the
BISmark firmware at
https://github.com/projectbismark/projectbismark/wiki/WNDR3700-Flashing

We may be able to send you a router if you live in an 'interesting' area
or have an 'interesting' ISP. We are particularly interested in talking
to Europeans, Australians, Canadians, and folks in the U.S. who are
located outside of the states of California and Georgia and who do not
have Comcast or AT&T as an ISP. Sign up at http://goo.gl/bxBB0

Privacy Statement changes
-------------------------

As I mentioned above, we have made some  changes to our Privacy
Statement. Beginning on 1 May 2012, the BISmark team may share active
measurement data collected by BISmark routers with other researchers and
Measurement Lab, and the public IP address of the collecting BISmark
router will be included in any active measurement data that is shared.

These changes only affect data related to performance measurements of
your Internet service by the BISmark software on your BISmark router.
The BISmark router does not collect information from your network
traffic, and the BISmark team will never share your personal information
with others (not even other researchers).

You can check out the full text of the current and new Privacy
Statements, the line-by-line changes, and the rationale for these
changes in more detail in our blog post about this change at
http://blog.projectbismark.net/project-bismark-privacy-statement-changes
